README.md, before:

# Assignment 3 Part 2 for ACIT 2420

## Tasks
### Task 1: Create 2 New Digital Ocean Droplets running Arch Linux with the tag "web"

You will use this tag when you setup your load balancer.

It should look something like this:  
![two new droplets](assets/two-droplets.png)

### Within you droplet, do the following:
1. Update your system by running the following command:
    ```
    sudo pacman -Syu
    ```
    This will update your system and make sure you have the latest packages.
2. Install the following packages:
    * nginx
    * nvim
    * git
    * ufw
    ```
    sudo pacman -S nginx nvim git ufw
    ```
    To check if these packages have been installed, run the following commands:  

    ```
    nginx --version
    ```
    ```
    nvim --version
    ```
    ```
    git --version
    ```
    ```
    ufw --version
    ```
### Task 2: Create a load balancer
The load balancer should be public facing and balance traffic between the two droplets you created in Task 1.

Settings for the load balancer:
* Regional, SFO3, same as your servers
* Default VPC, same as your servers
* External(public)
* Use the "web" tag to load balance all servers with a web tag in the SF03 region

It should look something like this:  
![load-balancer](assets/load-balancer.png)

### Task 3: Clone the starter code

Clone the starter code from the following repository:
https://git.sr.ht/~nathan_climbs/2420-as3-p2-start

This can be done by running the following command on your terminal:

```
git clone https://git.sr.ht/~nathan_climbs/2420-as3-p2-start
```

This contains a script that will generate an HTML document.

Then run the following command to move the generate_index script to the bin directory. Make sure generate_index is in your pwd:

```
mv generate_index /var/lib/webgen/bin/
```

>[!NOTE] 
>Alternatively, you can run the setup script. It will setup the necessary nginx configurations for the server and clone the repository for you.

#### To run the setup script
1. Make the setup file executable by running the following command:
    ```
    chmod +x setup
    ```
2. Run the setup script by running the following command:
    ```
    sudo ./setup
    ```
>[!NOTE]
Do the same thing for nginx-setup as well.
### Task 4: Update your server configuration to include a file server. 

When you visit 'your-ip/documents' you will see a list of the documents in the documents directory.

The directory structure should look like this:
```
├── bin/
│   └── generate_index
├── documents/
│   ├── file-one
│   └── file-two
└── HTML/
    └── index.html
```

**Some notes:**
* index.html is still generated by generate_index
* file-one and file-two are just sample files
  * they should contain some text so that you can confirm that you can download from your file server

Both Servers should have the following features:
* updated script to generate an updated HTML document
* file server that will serve some test files on both servers.


## FOR THE VIDEO
why do we make a system user?
- goal is to isolate the resources from other users
- make a system user and give ownership to the file server then this will ensure that other users can not access the files or make changes to it
- the system user does not have a login beacause this will make sure that no one can log in and change the files 

Why do we make a service file?

What is a after? wants? in a service file 
what is a target? 
- a target is a unit that is used to group other units together
- group of service file that achieves a specific state after it has been started

What is a timer?
- a unit that activates and deactivates other units based on a schedule
What is OnCalendar? 
What is WantedBy?
How does this timer know what service to start?

Commit message:

added what is a load balancer

README.md, after:

# Assignment 3 Part 2 for ACIT 2420

## Tasks
### Task 1: Create 2 New Digital Ocean Droplets running Arch Linux with the tag "web"

You will use this tag when you setup your load balancer.

It should look something like this:  
![two new droplets](assets/two-droplets.png)

### Within you droplet, do the following:
1. Update your system by running the following command:
    ```
    sudo pacman -Syu
    ```
    This will update your system and make sure you have the latest packages.
2. Install the following packages:
    * nginx
    * nvim
    * git
    * ufw
    ```
    sudo pacman -S nginx nvim git ufw
    ```
    To check if these packages have been installed, run the following commands:  

    ```
    nginx --version
    ```
    ```
    nvim --version
    ```
    ```
    git --version
    ```
    ```
    ufw --version
    ```
### Task 2: Create a load balancer
The load balancer should be public facing and balance traffic between the two droplets you created in Task 1.

Settings for the load balancer:
* Regional, SFO3, same as your servers
* Default VPC, same as your servers
* External(public)
* Use the "web" tag to load balance all servers with a web tag in the SF03 region

It should look something like this:  
![load-balancer](assets/load-balancer.png)

>**QUESTION:**
>What is the purpose of a load balancer?  
> **ANSWER:**  
> A load balancer distributes incoming network traffic across multiple servers to ensure no single server becomes overwhelmed. This helps improve the availability and reliability of your application by balancing the load, preventing server overload, and ensuring better performance and redundancy.
### Task 3: Clone the starter code

Clone the starter code from the following repository:
https://git.sr.ht/~nathan_climbs/2420-as3-p2-start

This can be done by running the following command on your terminal:

```
git clone https://git.sr.ht/~nathan_climbs/2420-as3-p2-start
```

This contains a script that will generate an HTML document.

Then run the following command to move the generate_index script to the bin directory. Make sure generate_index is in your pwd:

```
mv generate_index /var/lib/webgen/bin/
```

>[!NOTE] 
>Alternatively, you can run the setup script. It will setup the necessary nginx configurations for the server and clone the repository for you.

#### To run the setup script
1. Make the setup file executable by running the following command:
    ```
    chmod +x setup
    ```
2. Run the setup script by running the following command:
    ```
    sudo ./setup
    ```
>[!NOTE]
Do the same thing for nginx-setup as well.

### Task 4: Update your server configuration to include a file server. 

When you visit 'your-ip/documents' you will see a list of the documents in the documents directory.

The directory structure should look like this:
```
├── bin/
│   └── generate_index
├── documents/
│   ├── file-one
│   └── file-two
└── HTML/
    └── index.html
```
This will be created in the setup script.

**Some notes:**
* index.html is still generated by generate_index
* file-one and file-two are just sample files
  * they should contain some text so that you can confirm that you can download from your file server

Both Servers should have the following features:
* updated script to generate an updated HTML document
* file server that will serve some test files on both servers.


## FOR THE VIDEO
1. Why do we make a system user?
- goal is to isolate the resources from other users
- make a system user and give ownership to the file server then this will ensure that other users can not access the files or make changes to it
- the system user does not have a login beacause this will make sure that no one can log in and change the files 

2. Why do we make a service file?

What is a after? wants? in a service file 
what is a target? 
- a target is a unit that is used to group other units together
- group of service file that achieves a specific state after it has been started

What is a timer?
- a unit that activates and deactivates other units based on a schedule
What is OnCalendar? 
What is WantedBy?
How does this timer know what service to start?
